This is binger the binary news-group extracter.
I have attempted to create a better text-based alternative than other
stuff I have had to put up with in the past.
To install, untar with tar zxf binger.tgz
cd to binger_src and type make.
copy the binger and *.hlp files to a place on your path such as:
/usr/local/bin
copy the config.sample to ~/.binger.cfg and edit appropriately.
It supports multiple news servers (only moderately tested)

to start simply type binger.
also you can do:
binger -s (no sync)
binger -b (batch update mode)
binger -i (ignore threading)
binger -z nzb-file-name (read and parse an nzb file)
nzb file may be g-zipped and will be automatically unzipped.
you can define a download method in lynx as I did for binsearch.info.
then when you get a gzipped nzb you can go directly to binger
and get the content referenced by the nzb file using article commands.

f1 gives help. if you are at the group level you get group help.
when in a group, you get article help.
when you run for the first time, you will have no groups.
The active groups will be read from the server and you can subscribe
with shell style globbing patterns.
supported operators are:
^ anchor to start
$ anchor to end
. any char.
* any chars.
[ chars] match a range of chars as in [a-zA-Z0-9]
lowercase letters match both cases and uppercase match only uppercase.
a string of plain chars matches anywhere like the c function strstr()

this simple pattern matching is used at the article level also.

When getting started for the first time:

You need to subscribe to news groups before reading them.
As most servers have a large list of groups over 3500, you
have to get a sublist. If you were interested in music you would type
/music/y
A list of all groups containing the word music in there name would be displayed.
then you could cursor up/down and press the letter s to subscribe.
pressing enter on a group subscribes and immediately puts you
in the group for article reading.
You can also use a pattern to do a bulk subscribe as in:
/jazz/s
this would subscribe to all jazz groups in the sublist.
when you first enter a group for article reading it asks you for the
retention days. this is how many days you want binger to keep articles.
A big value means that you use more memory and the initial header loading
takes longer. Each header is approx 3k of data so if you have a data limit
or slow connection, adjust accordingly. Mine is set to 30.
If you kill an article, it can be undeleted if less than
retention days old. You can adjust retention at anytime and it will
get more or delete accordingly.
If you increase this value, it will do a binary search against the server to
figure out where to start getting articles. The number of pending
articles will be large for several seconds while the probe is adjusting.
In a couple of cases, this has behaved oddly and may have to be interrupted
with control-c. You will not kill binger, but simplycancel the probe.

For more info, pressing f1 will bring up basic help with examples.
